Added new kb article scheduler-conditionally-disable-drag-for-some-appointments (#2297)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/scheduler-conditionally-disable-drag-for-some-appointments.md

---
title: Conditionally Disable Dragging for Specific Scheduler Appointments
description: Learn how to disable the drag functionality for certain appointments in the Scheduler component based on a condition.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Conditionally Disable Drag for Certain Appointments in Blazor Scheduler

> slug: scheduler-conditionally-disable-drag-for-some-appointments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: scheduler-kb-conditionally-disable-drag-for-some-appointments
```

> tags: scheduler, blazor, drag, disable, appointment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags: blazor, scheduler, drag
```

res_type: kb
ticketid: 1660283
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Scheduler for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

> I want to disable the dragging of some appointments based on a condition, such as the status of the appointment. 

Reviewer 2: Consider moving this sentence to the bullet list.

This KB article also answers the following questions:
- How can I prevent specific appointments from being dragged in the Scheduler?

> - Is it possible to conditionally disable drag functionality for appointments in the Scheduler?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Is it possible to conditionally disable the drag functionality for appointments in the Scheduler?
```

- How to use CSS and event handling to disable dragging for certain appointments?

## Solution

> To conditionally disable the drag of an appointment based on your desired condition, follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To conditionally disable dragging an appointment based on your desired condition, follow these steps:
```

> 1. Handle the [OnItemRender event]({%slug scheduler-events%}#itemrender) to add a custom CSS class to the appointments that you want to disable the dragging for.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Handle the [`OnItemRender` event]({%slug scheduler-events%}#itemrender) to add a custom CSS class to the appointments that you want to disable the dragging for.
```

> 1. Handle the [OnItemRender event]({%slug scheduler-events%}#itemrender) to add a custom CSS class to the appointments that you want to disable the dragging for.

Reviewer 2: "... add a custom CSS class to the non-draggable appointments" is shorter. The remove keywords are used plenty of times elsewhere, so it's not a problem.

2. Use this custom CSS class as a selector to stop the [pointer-events](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css3_pr_pointer-events.php) of the targeted appointments.

> 3. Extend the [OnUpdate handler]({%slug scheduler-appointments-edit%}#basics) logic to ensure the appointment will not be dropped to another slot. Steps 1 and 2 will prevent the drag, but the user can enable the pointer-events from the DOM inspector. Add a check in your OnUpdate handler to ensure that if the user drags the appointment, it will not be updated and dropped to a different slot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Extend the [`OnUpdate` handler]({%slug scheduler-appointments-edit%}#basics) logic to ensure the appointment will not be dropped to another slot. Steps 1 and 2 will prevent dragging, but the user can enable the pointer events from the DOM inspector. Add a check in your `OnUpdate` handler to ensure that if the user drags the appointment, it will not be updated and dropped to a different slot.
```

> Below is a basic sample demonstrating the suggested approach:

Reviewer 2: Replace this sentence with a `>caption`.

                Start = new DateTime(2019, 11, 25, 9, 30, 0),
                End = new DateTime(2019, 11, 25, 12, 45, 0)
            },

            new SchedulerAppointment
            {
                Title = "Trip to Hawaii",
                Description = "An unforgettable holiday!",
                IsAllDay = true,
                Start = new DateTime(2019, 11, 29),
                End = new DateTime(2019, 12, 07),
                NonDraggable = true
            },

            new SchedulerAppointment
            {
                Title = "Online conference",
                IsAllDay = true,
                Start = new DateTime(2019, 11, 25),
                End = new DateTime(2019, 11, 26)
            }
    };

    public class SchedulerAppointment
    {
        public string Title { get; set; }
        public string Description { get; set; }
        public DateTime Start { get; set; }
        public DateTime End { get; set; }
        public bool IsAllDay { get; set; }

        public bool NonDraggable { get; set; }
    }
}

<style>
    .non-draggable-appointment {
        background-color: grey;
        font-weight: 900;
        pointer-events: none !important;
    }

> </style>

Reviewer 2: Move the CSS code above the `@code` section.

Check if it's possible to restore pointer events to the appointment's close button.

Reviewer: Updated in https://github.com/telerik/blazor-docs/pull/2297/commits/ab625b4c33c47ae03e7e67f8bc5b88b45ed4bf50

````

## Notes

> - The custom CSS class used to disable dragging should be defined in your application's stylesheets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The custom CSS class used to disable dragging must be defined in your application's stylesheets.
```

> - Ensure the condition for disabling drag is consistent across both the `OnItemRender` event and the `OnUpdate` event handler.

Reviewer 3: Consider adding a See Also section with relevant links.

Reviewer: The general practice for the KB articles is to link the relevant resources in the text instead of having an additional See Also section. The majority of the KB articles do not have that. Maybe we can additionally synchronize whether we want to adopt such section in the KB structure.

                End = new DateTime(2019, 11, 26)
            }
    };

    public class SchedulerAppointment
    {
        public string Title { get; set; }
        public string Description { get; set; }
        public DateTime Start { get; set; }
        public DateTime End { get; set; }
        public bool IsAllDay { get; set; }

        public bool NonDraggable { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## Notes

* The custom CSS class used to disable dragging must be defined in your application's stylesheets.
* Ensure the condition for disabling drag is consistent across both the `OnItemRender` event and the `OnUpdate` event handler.
* The suggested solution relies on removing the pointer-events of the whole appointment. Thus, the hover event is also not detected to show the delete icon of the appointments and the user will not be able to delete them. If you want to allow deleting of the non-draggable appointments, adjust the styles to ensure the delete icon will always be visible:

````
<style>
    /* prevents the pointer-events of the appointment */
    .non-draggable-appointment {
        background-color: grey;
        font-weight: 900;
        pointer-events: none !important;
    }

>     /* ensures the delete icon is always visible */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /* ensures the delete icon is always visible and clickable */
```
